AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Module 3 Project 
Page 1 of 6 
Module 3 Project 
Production-Ready 
AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Competency C2, completed 
Competency 
C2 — Specification-Driven Development & Automated Quality Engineering 
Criteria judged in this module 
C2.4 – C2.8, plus final judgment on C2.1 and C2.2 from Module 2 
What you submit 
Production-ready backend: tests, a TDD-implemented feature, pipeline, 
container and a documented refactor 
Does this complete the 
competency? 
Yes. C2 is judged complete on this submission. 
Attempts 
Three attempts at this module submission. Attempts are counted per 
module — needing a second attempt here does not affect any other 
module. 
 
Scenario 
We're preparing for launch. That means real tests, a pipeline that blocks broken code, and 
containerization. No more “it works on my machine.” 
Your Module 2 documentation is re-checked here. C2.1 and C2.2 were provisional. After this module's 
feature work and refactoring, your docs and API reference must still match the code. Update them as 
you go rather than at the end. 
Tasks 
Task 3.1 — Comprehensive test suite 
Reach 80% coverage or higher, measured with pytest-cov. 
□ tests/test_api.py — all endpoints, error cases (404, 400, 422), edge cases, query parameters 
□ tests/test_storage.py — CRUD operations, persistence within a session, edge cases 
□ tests/test_utils.py — all utility functions and error conditions 
□ tests/test_models.py — validation, defaults, serialization 
Every endpoint in your specs and API reference needs at least one test for the success path and one for 
a documented failure case. Coverage reached by tests that execute code without asserting anything 
does not meet C2.5. 
Task 3.2 — Implement one spec feature using TDD 

AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Module 3 Project 
Page 2 of 6 
Pick one feature from your Module 2 specs — Prompt Versioning or Tagging System. You'll implement 
the other in Module 4. 
Work in strict order, committing at each step: 
1. Commit a failing test first 
2. Commit the minimum implementation to pass it 
3. Refactor while tests stay green 
4. Repeat until the feature meets its spec 
Your commit history is the only evidence for C2.4, and C2.4 is MUST PASS. Do not squash your history 
— if the ordering can't be seen, the criterion cannot be Met. A test committed first that asserts nothing 
capable of failing does not count. 
Task 3.3 — GitHub Actions CI → .github/workflows/ci.yml 
□ Triggers on push and pull request 
□ Sets up the Python environment and installs dependencies 
□ Runs linting (ruff or flake8) 
□ Runs tests with coverage 
□ Fails the build if coverage drops below 80% 
□ Passes on a clean clone of your repository 
Also required: docs/ci-gate-evidence.md — proof your pipeline fails when it should. Break a test on 
purpose, push it, capture the failed run, then revert. A pipeline that runs tests but doesn't fail the build 
when they fail does not gate anything, and this is a common late discovery. 
name: CI 
  
on: [push, pull_request] 
  
jobs: 
  test: 
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest 
    steps: 
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4 
      - name: Set up Python 
        uses: actions/setup-python@v4 
        with: 
          python-version: '3.10' 
      # ... install, lint, test with coverage, enforce threshold 
Task 3.4 — Docker configuration 
□ backend/Dockerfile — appropriate base image, dependencies installed, code copied, correct port 
exposed, proper CMD 
□ docker-compose.yml in the project root — backend service, port mapping, environment variables, hot 
reload for development 
□ README section explaining Docker usage 

AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Module 3 Project 
Page 3 of 6 
The image must build from what is committed, with no manual steps, and the container must actually 
serve the API. 
Task 3.5 — Documented refactor → docs/refactor-note.md 
This is not a general tidy-up checklist. You need one refactor you can prove was behaviour-preserving. 
□ Name the code smell you're removing — duplication, long function, primitive obsession, whatever it is 
□ Commit the state before the refactor with the suite green 
□ Perform the refactor 
□ Commit the state after with the suite green 
□ Write docs/refactor-note.md: the smell named, the two commit hashes, and confirmation that the 
public interface and observable behaviour are unchanged 
Do not edit tests to accommodate the refactor. The tests are what prove behaviour didn't change; 
changing them removes the evidence. 
Other cleanup — type hints, dead code, better names — is welcome, but it isn't what C2.6 assesses. 
What You Submit 
□ Coverage ≥ 80%, with meaningful assertions 
□ One spec feature implemented with visible test-first commit history — MUST PASS 
□ .github/workflows/ci.yml passing on a clean clone — MUST PASS 
□ docs/ci-gate-evidence.md showing the pipeline failing on a broken test 
□ backend/Dockerfile and docker-compose.yml that build and run 
□ docs/refactor-note.md with named smell and before/after commits 
□ Documentation and API reference updated to match the code after this module's changes 
□ Your GitHub repository link, a brief summary, and any known issues 
Verification 
pytest tests/ -v --cov=app --cov-report=term-missing 
docker-compose up --build 
git push origin main    # confirm CI passes, then confirm it fails when it should 
 
 

AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Module 3 Project 
Page 4 of 6 
What This Module Is Judged Against 
Generated from PromptLab Criterion Set v2.1 (see the PromptLab Grading Rubric). Do not edit here — changes must be made in the 
rubric and regenerated. 
These are the exact criteria your assessor works through for this submission. Nothing is hidden and 
nothing is judged on impression. Read the right-hand column first — if your work matches one of those 
patterns, the criterion comes back Not Yet. 
The last two criteria below carry over from Module 2. They were judged provisionally then and 
receive their final judgment on this submission, against the final state of your code. 
What is checked 
What earns “Met” 
Common mistakes to avoid 
C2.4 — Your tests came 
first 
Evidence: Commit history for 
your Module 3 feature 
MUST PASS 
For each part of the feature, a commit 
containing a failing test precedes the 
commit containing its implementation. The 
Red-Green-Refactor rhythm is visible. 
– All tests in one commit after the code. 
– Squashed history, so ordering can't be 
seen. 
– Tests committed first that assert nothing 
capable of failing. 
C2.5 — Spec, tests and 
code line up 
Evidence: tests/, coverage 
report, specs/ 
Coverage ≥ 80% measured with pytest-cov. 
Every endpoint in your specs and API 
reference has at least one passing test for 
the success path and one for a documented 
failure case. Storage, utils and model 
validation are covered. 
– Endpoints built but not tested, or tested 
but not specified. 
– Coverage reached by tests that run code 
without asserting anything. 
– Failure cases specified but never tested. 
C2.6 — Your refactor 
changed nothing visible 
Evidence: docs/refactor-
note.md, before/after commits 
A named code smell removed, the two 
commit hashes given, suite green on both 
sides, public interface and observable 
behaviour unchanged. 
– Not naming the smell, or fixing 
something other than the one named. 
– Changing behaviour at the same time. 
– Editing tests to accommodate the 
refactor instead of using them to check it. 
C2.7 — Your pipeline 
actually gates 
Evidence: 
.github/workflows/ci.yml, run 
logs, docs/ci-gate-evidence.md 
MUST PASS 
Triggers on push and pull request, runs 
linting and tests with coverage, fails the 
build below 80%, passes on a clean clone, 
and demonstrably fails when a test is 
deliberately broken. 
– A workflow file with no successful run 
recorded. 
– A pipeline that runs tests but doesn't fail 
the build when they fail. 
– Passing locally but failing on a clean 
clone because config was never 
committed. 
C2.8 — Your container 
builds and runs 
Evidence: backend/Dockerfile, 
docker-compose.yml, build 
output 
The image builds from committed files with 
no manual steps. The container serves the 
API. docker-compose up --build brings up a 
working local environment, and the 
README explains Docker usage. 
– An image that builds but a container that 
exits or serves nothing. 
– A Dockerfile depending on files not in 
the repository. 
– A build needing undocumented manual 
steps. 
C2.1 — Your specs are 
specific enough 
Evidence: specs/prompt-
versions.md, specs/tagging-
system.md 
Each spec has overview and goals, user 
stories with acceptance criteria, data 
model changes, API endpoints with request 
and response shapes, and specified error 
conditions and edge cases. Every endpoint 
– Requirements that name a feature 
without describing behaviour. 
– Specifying the happy path and leaving 
errors unstated. 

AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Module 3 Project 
Page 5 of 6 
What is checked 
What earns “Met” 
Common mistakes to avoid 
Provisional until Module 3 
has at least one acceptance criterion you 
could write a test from directly. 
– Criteria you can't test, like “handles 
input correctly”. 
C2.2 — Your docs match 
your code 
Evidence: README.md, 
docstrings in models.py / api.py 
/ storage.py / utils.py, 
docs/API_REFERENCE.md 
Provisional until Module 3 
Docstrings on every function and class 
across all four source modules, with 
parameters, returns and exceptions 
matching the implementation. API 
reference documents every endpoint that 
exists — including PATCH and your Module 
3 feature — with request examples, sample 
responses and error formats. README 
setup steps work on a clean clone. 
– API reference describing an earlier draft 
of the spec. 
– Docs not updated after Module 3's 
feature work. 
– Setup steps missing an environment 
variable or dependency. 
– Docstrings that restate the function 
name. 
 
 

AIE 500 — PromptLab  |  Module 3 Project 
Page 6 of 6 
Where the Rules Live 
This file contains the tasks and criteria for this module only. Everything else lives in Getting Started: 
• Syllabus — grading policy, re-attempt policy, integrity and AI attribution. 
• Course & Project Guide — how mastery grading works in plain language, and how to do well. 
• PromptLab Grading Rubric — all 22 criteria across all five modules, if you want to see what's 
coming. 
 
 
